So the, what was the, after being in the Corps, was
there the next internal, was it the band or the RVs
or fish drill team that came up next? It all came to a
head with Melanie Sincrap in that trial because
everything then was lumped in together as it
related to women And that's in the late 70s,
because she graduates in May of 80. Well, yeah, so
it was probably mid-70s.
Why her?
How did she become the focus?
I really don't know. And when I say I really don't
know, I think
it takes an individual that's
really bitter about
the manner in which they've been treated, I think,
to go around cheating. And I think she became very
bitter about the manner in which the males treated
her before. And so her bitterness initially was
her individual treatment. She was in the Corps for
years. Now I understand, that's my way of saying I
don't know for sure, I understand that her father
and stepfather were both bird colonels, I think
Air Force, and that her mother had a physical
handicap, I think wheelchair bound, and I had
heard that The mother raised the daughter not to
take no for an answer. Don't let somebody put
something over on you. You keep plugging away. Did
you have any
interaction with Melanie? No. In fact, she never
did come to see me. So you can't describe her by? No.
Never did come in. And that was one of the points
that I made back at the trial, initially. If
someone was that embittered or had that much of a
problem, why did they come to see me? Of course,
going back to what I said earlier about the Corps,
about keeping everything within.
I think, I don't think that group of people at that
time felt comfortable in going outside. Anyone,
male, female, whatever. That changed over a
period of time. People would come visit with me
about anything and everything, but not that group
in the Corps back at that time. Did the trial
involving Melanie, did that occur while she was
still a student? Yes, it did. And what was the
decision? The decision back at that time
was
against
The
decision was made in favor of Melvin. And if I'm not
mistaken, that women could be members of all the
organizations to include the band.
There was a financial settlement in regard to
court costs and all. I remember that it cost us a lot
of money. I remember that. And my thought was that
that was something we really didn't need to spend
all that money on. A federal court? Uh-huh. All
right, let's go to the stage at Melanie's
graduation. Did you anticipate any incident? Had
you heard any? None. Had not heard anything at all.
And I was looking the other way. I was not too far
from you. And I was not looking and I heard the
almost like a stunned audience. And had to ask
someone who was sitting next to me what had
happened. And that's when I found out the jurors
had not changed. Right. I was up on the front of the,
let's put this in the tape, I was up on the front row
in my dean of faculties duties normally after
bringing the mace and putting it on the front, I
would go to the back row and sit down. After his
speech that day, Lieutenant Governor Bill Hobby
had motioned for me, as the diploma was being
passed, I'd come up and he said, now when you get out
to UT El Paso as the new president, stay in contact,
maybe I can help. And so we're just shooting the
breeze, and I'm about to go back to my seat to get
ready for the end of it, because I look and see there
are only a few names left, and I hear a little bit of
hissing. And I said, oh my, good gracious. And he
said, what do you mean? I said, well, there's some
hissing. That means somebody doesn't like
something. And I look to my right and see about one
or two people away from coming up to get the diploma
was Melanie Zingray. He remembered her as having
been, quote, a pain in the neck. And he may have used
some stronger words than that, because he said she
had pestered him over and over. And so we are right
there when, as I recall, Dr. Miller says, no way I'm
going to shake your hand. And the whole audience
then was kind of stunned. All right, do you
remember anything being said or done as we go back
into the letterman's lounge? I remember a couple
of board members coming up to Jarvis saying, damn
right, Jarvis, I wouldn't shake in her hand
either. She doesn't deserve to have her. I
normally, as I came back in, scooted out that back
sliding door to scoot over. And so I probably was
right there when that was.
I normally walked out with a board member. Because
I sat in the front row always in what, third down or
whatever, so there would have been a board member
coming up the other side. And I don't remember
anybody saying anything to me going down the aisle
and all the way back. And then I just slipped out.
Did you hear anything in the next few days? Did you
hear any comments or anything? Yeah, I heard the
kind of comments you were talking about. The
number of people were saying, well, it's good that
he didn't shake her hand. She deserved it, et
cetera. Did you hear anybody giving Jarvis a hard
time for not? I didn't either. All right, let's
jump back in time now. Let's go back. And let's go to
the, let's go back to the Williams years. Mrs.
Williams, describe her as the president's wife.
Margaret,
she very strong as a person and had very strong
feelings about everything. And I'm not trying to
hide it. I don't remember the conversations that
we had about specific things. All I remember,
though, no matter what it was, she would tell you
how she felt about it. And I know she was not too
thrilled about board members who gave Dr.
Williams a tough time. She was very protective of
Dr. Williams. It was so before he had his heart
attack and very much so afterwards. So she was very
protective.
Her life, her thoughts were about her kids, her
family, hoping things would go well for them.
She was always cordial to me, always very nice,
very pleasant. I remember one time she came over
and borrowed some peanut butter next door. We
enjoyed living next to them. They were very
private people. Alright, let's go to his health.
Were you aware before his heart attack that that
might be approaching? Wasn't aware specifically
in regard to to Dr. Williams, although he had told
me about his family before. So I knew that there was
a history of heart problems in his family. But you
never think about it as it relates to that specific
individual and something was going to happen. So I
never really gave it much thought, other than the
fact that I was aware. Do you remember anything
about the evening it occurred, or how you first
heard? I was out at a golf course. I was playing
golf, and the word came out that he had been rushed
to St. Joseph's. Of course, I was playing at Briar
Place, which was right here close by. And I left the
golf course and went up there. Everything is fuzzy
in my mind. After that, I remember Nelda, and I
remember Margaret, and the fact that he had had a
massive heart attack. And it happened in the
afternoon? Uh-huh. It was Haskell, I think it was
mid-afternoon, mid to late afternoon. In the
office? I'm not sure where it was. I don't remember
that either. I'm not sure where it was. All I
remember is I was on the golf course. And you know,
for some reason, that makes me think it's
Saturday. OK. And then he's taken to Houston. and
what little I remember is that we heard
immediately that it was very, very serious. Yeah,
that's what I heard. That's what they said to me.
And they didn't think he was going to make it.
Right. I remember that. I was in shock. I just
hadn't even thought about it. And if I'm not
mistaken, it was a number of weeks before he's
back. Describe him physically when you saw him
after he came back. He was really pale. I remember
that. Looked like he had lost a lot of weight in the
short period of time.
So much more subdued personality-wise.
Do
you remember anything in his lifestyle
before the heart attack that in hindsight might
have contributed to it? I don't remember smoking.
I don't remember his overdoing anything. No.
Not a thing that would indicate it. The only thing
is his temper, his emotional competitiveness.
Let's see. If you remember any, share some
Williams anecdotes.
The funniest one to me was I went to his office with a
budget meeting. One time in that long rectangular
table that he had in his office, and Nella sat on one
side, Dr. Williams was on the end, and I was on this
side. And we were talking about money. And we were
talking about a particular couple of figures. And
he multiplied something together. And I laughed.
It wasn't even close. Like he missed it by $180,000
or something. And I said to him, you know, you only
missed about $180,000. That's not bad for a
history major. And he turned and he kicked me in the
shin. And
I laughed. But anyway, he, oh, you would always
refer to your wife as being, you married... She
married the lower self. I remember using that
word. In regard to administrative style, I would
keep things in a folder and then I would schedule a
time to go visit with them. And then I would decide,
after I walked into the office and sat down,
whether it was going to be a social visit we would
handle a couple of minor things or we would get into
major issues. When he was in a bad mood, and a bad
mood being something was bothering him for one
reason or another, that he would just
automatically be strongly in opposition to
whatever it was that you were talking about. So I
learned administratively to decide what kind of
mood he was in before we ever got into issues. As I
said earlier, he was always very down to earth, no
put on.
When he wasn't emotionally upset about
something, would interact very well with you
about whatever. And he was so bright. Go ahead. I
was going to say, I always thought he had an almost
endless file of good items to throw in a speech and
so forth that those he had filed away. Do you
remember any major proposal that you tried to
market to him that he didn't buy into? I don't want
to. One of the, one of the, I'll always remember
this one. I went to see him about counseling
center, personal counseling center. And he let me
know very quickly that any student, and those
kinds of problems didn't need to be a student at
Texas A&M. And so I, over a period of time, We
discussed it and we eventually created the
personal counseling center. And that was
something he was totally opposed to initially.
But again, his rationale was if they have that kind
of a problem, that A&M wasn't the place that they
ought to be. And my argument was we have a lot of good
kids. carry a lot of baggage with them because of
the families, the attention they had or not had as
youngsters. And when I came, that was one of the
things I thought we needed very badly, right at the
very beginning. And I had told Wade Birch, Wade who
had done a super job for me at East Texas, and I had
hired Wade, that if I could create one here, that I
would want him to come down and get that one
started. And so that all came about. And that was in
74 as well. All right. Do you remember any major
ideas in student affairs that he introduced that
you all used? Well, it was one that we all used, I
think, Because we were all comfortable with it,
but the fact that he brought those kids up there
into his office, Ken Caperton and Roger, we
thought that kids ought to be involved all over,
all the time. So it was something we all agreed to.
He had done it before I got here, so I felt more
comfortable probably in doing so. But we involved
kids in everything.
And then
I had the weekly meetings with the students and
student leadership and we chatted. He wanted to
have some kind of relationship with them and we
worked it out. to where they had dinner, not
dinner, but lunch once a month. Remember that? And
it was my two groups that I had. I had a Thursday
night dinner with the executive committee of
student building. And then I had about 10 other
major student leaders on the alderman for
Thursday. And so once a month for lunch, we'd bring
those about 20 kids and we'd have lunch with about
20. And then I would sit at the end of the table and
only be a resource. It was his. He sat in the middle,
sort of like the Last Supper. It's middle, and then
the 20 would be around, and I'd be at the end. So that
was a way for him to have that interaction.
Describe his relation, Dr. Williams' relation
with students and their reaction to him. That
first year, Randy Ross was student body
president. Randy just loved Dr. Williams. And
Randy's girlfriend at the time, Sandy, who was
very actively involved, loved him too. And they
got married that summer after that first year that
I was here. And we flew with the Williams to San
Antonio for the wedding. But the...
He was very relaxed. Some presidents, for some
reason, get uptight around students, but he was
very relaxed around students, and they
appreciated that. He was very honest with them,
very frank, very friendly,
and not paternalistic in any way, just a friendly,
nice human being to the students, and they enjoyed
that interaction, that relationship. All right,
how was he in dealing with paperwork? Did the
paper, was there a paper flow in and out or did
things get lost? Paper flow went fast and the, I'm
sure Nelda was helpful with that. I can remember I
sent over talking about funny things.
all worked all of the fall, putting together all my
ideas in regard to how I wanted to change things
administratively, and so I had my secretary put
all that together for me during the Christmas
holidays, and I sent it to him right after we came
back to school, starting in January. Just before I
sent it to him, I saw a cartoon in the newspaper, and
the cartoon was one glob speaking to the other, and
one glob was saying, I'm beginning to believe that
the meek will never inherit the earth. I made a copy
of that cartoon and I attached it to my proposal
that I sent to him. Sent that proposal over. And I
got a call from Nellie. And Nellie said she heard
Dr. Williams just laughing and beat a storm. And
she wondered what it was. So she went in to see. And
he was looking at my cartoon. So again, that was
fun. You could use humor as a part of even the
administrative style. But yeah, you never had to
worry about waiting on things from Dr. Williams.
It was one way or the other. quick response. Did he
have any pet peeves?
I think if anything it was people not being honest
and direct with him. That he wanted people to be
honest and frank with
him. He couldn't stand pussyfooting around. I
think it was like paperwork and everything else.
You made a decision and you went on with things, and
you just did the piddle and piddle and piddle. Some
of those things were driving crazy as it related to
trying to catch the board in the right mood, in a
good mood, to kind of push something through the
board. So that would bother him. The
kind of administrator you'd like to work for and
with?
Let's see. In those early years, do you remember
any goals you had that, as you recall now, you
weren't able to bring to reality? No.
That first year and that proposal I sent forward,
one of the things that I worked on at East Texas and
thought it was important for us to do at that time
was to have legal services available for
students. Gwen Flint, who was very actively
involved with that, with me, and we got that
approved. Everything that we wanted to do and
thought was important, he was helpful and
supportive. Now, you didn't get 35 staff members
for every department, We made some movement in
every area, and he was very supportive in that
regard. And again, the support was providing
services and programs for students, and that's
what he wanted done, and that's what he wanted me to
do, and he was very supportive of that. Did you feel
that the area under your administrative
responsibility was getting fair treatment
compared to the rest of the campus? Yes, without a
doubt. Tom Cherry was supportive and helpful.
John and you all in John's office. John was very
supportive and has always been supportive of me in
regard to the things I was attempting to do. So I
never felt hindered in any way. by the
administrative staff or by the pros. It was very
important. Let's go back then chronologically.
Dr. Williams has the heart attack, and then
administratively, who took over his
responsibilities, as you recall? For me, the
person who then contacted me about everything was
Clyde Freeman. Clyde was the one. My assumption,
though, was that... Mr. Wells was the one that was
really in charge, and that Clyde was doing his
business for Clyde Wells. Alright, did Mr. Wells
physically come to the campus and take up office? I
didn't see him that way, but I heard that he did, and
I heard he was here for lengthy periods of time in
that office. Alright, and then Dr. Williams comes
back, And then there is that board meeting where
the board selects Dr. Miller as the new president.
Do you remember your first conversations with
him, with Dr. Miller? Early on, I remember I had
never met him before. And so it was the first
meeting, and it was cordial. It was interesting
for me because at that time the University of
Arkansas was courting me as a possibility for the
Chief Student Affairs Officer at the University
of Arkansas. So as John did with Jarvis, I went to
see Jarvis, set up an appointment, and
told him that I wanted him to
to have whomever he wanted in that particular
position And if he did not, if he was not interested
in having me in that position, that I had a couple
options, and that I was willing to pursue those if
he didn't want me in the position. And so he, he told
me he wanted me in that position, he wanted me to
stay, and so I agreed to do so. And I dropped that on
the other way along. Frank Broyles was on the
committee, looking for, searching for the new
Chief Student Affairs Officer. And Frank Broyles
called me, and Fred Horsinger, the chief
financial officer up there. So they were both
interested in, so I didn't tell them what I had
done, but I called them back after I talked to them.
We were happy here. Things had gone well. Didn't
think they were going to change in regard to going
well. And so I called them and told them. Maribel
and I had talked it over and discussed it. We were
happy here. And I did want to be considered for the
job. Great. organizationally, were there any
changes when Jarvis became the president in
student affairs? We kept moving in the same
direction that we had started in. The only
difference was that Malin came down from
placement and became an assistant to Jarvis,
which meant We had someone right there in the
office who we thought would be supportive. But it
didn't change in regard to
how we operated. Interestingly enough,
administratively for me, Jarvis,
never a time did I go to Jarvis's office and worry
about how he was in terms of emotion. I could always
go ahead with whatever it was. Jarvis blocked out
the rest of the world and talked to me about
anything and everything that we had on our agenda.
So whereas with Dr. Williams, you know, I'd have to
pick and choose. Timing this a little bit. And by
the way, I've told this to a few people, but I had a
statistics problem. It was just like Dr.
Williams. I loved him to death, but he would, if you
asked the wrong question, when he was feeling bad,
found out later that his problem was ulcers, and
when he was feeling bad, he'd jump all over your
fanny for asking a stupid question. When he was in a
good mood, you know, so it kind of reminded me of Dr.
Williams, and then later, Frank Vandiver, same
way. The high highs and the low lows. But with
Jarvis, Jarvis was straight across. So it just
continued along. Did the paper flow,
getting a yes or a no answer, did that change much?
No. For me, it was just the same. And the frequency
of being able to get to him and meetings of the key
administrators continued at about the same rate?
Yep. We probably had... Jarvis started the
breakfast with the key administrative staff. Dr.
Williams didn't have those. And Dr. Williams
didn't have many where he involved all the vice
presidents. He primarily related to each vice
president on his own. So the joint breakfast, that
was a new thing with Jarvis. Perry Atkinson,
By that time, had we gotten in the Howard Vest line?
Yeah, I think so. Yeah. And so we had breakfast. And
Walker, of course. Yeah,
Bob Walker. So we had the breakfast. And Mac. And
Mac. Hi. Let's go back and grab, who are the student
leaders from those early years? that deserve
mention. Steve Everhart, who was student body
president the year after Randy Ross. Give a brief
little description of talents or achievements.
Steve was from New Chronicles. He was significant
for a number of reasons. One, he went to Harvard Law
School after he left here. And then, bless his
heart.